docs/cincinnati/sop/README.md, before:

# SOP : Openshift Cincinnati

<!-- TOC depthTo:2 -->

- [SOP : OpenShift Cincinnati](#sop--openshift-cincinnati)
    - [Verify it's working](#verify-its-working)
    - [Reporting analysis](#reporting-analysis)
    - [Reverting broken versions](#reverting-broken-versions)
    - [GBUpstreamScrapesHalted](#gbupstreamscrapeshalted)
    - [GBUpstreamScrapeErrors](#gbupstreamscrapeerrors)
    - [PEIncomingRequestsHalted](#peincomingrequestshalted)
    - [PEUpstreamErrors](#peupstreamerrors)
    - [PEGraphResponseErrors](#pegraphresponseerrors)
    - [Escalations](#escalations)

<!-- /TOC -->

---

## Verify it's working

- At least one `cincinnati` pod is marked as UP in Prometheus.
- Additional details on expected behaviour are available in the Cincinnati production deployment doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oT9wueEB01god-gICg0DsGFJzuA-E-TPn88ViWTMr-A/edit

---

## Reporting analysis

Analysis of alerts should be reported on Slack in `#team-cincinnati-alert`, mentioning both `@app-sre-ic` and `@over-the-air-updates` and.
In cases where that analysis is "this alert is too sensitive; this is nothing we need to worry about in the short term", the mentions are still worthwhile because they make it less likely that either team invests duplicate time in re-analyzing the same alert.

## Reverting broken versions

Production reverts can be applied via [saas-cincinnati][], in cases where the issue is due to a production bump having pushed out broken code.
Reverting [the most-recently merged bump][saas-cincinnati-bump] will move production back to the code it was running before.

The production deployment used to reside in [saas-cincinnati-repo][]

---

## GBUpstreamScrapesHalted

### Summary:

Graph-builder scraping logic is not making progresses.

### Impact:

New releases will not appear in the update graph (the latest cached graph will be kept serving).
Updated releases and transition-edges will not be reflected in the update graph.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why graph-builder got blocked.
- If the scrape failure is preventing [a new release][cincinnati-graph-data] and appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## GBUpstreamScrapeErrors

### Summary:

Graph-builder is failing to scrape release metadata from quay.io.

### Impact:

New releases will not appear in the update graph (the latest cached graph will be kept serving).
Updated releases and transition-edges will not be reflected in the update graph.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Check quay.io outage status: https://status.quay.io/
- Look at the logs for the 'graph-builder' container to pinpoint what is failing.
- If logs contain service errors from quay.io, check #forum-quay-oncall and contact quay.io ops.
- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why graph-builder is experiencing scrape errors.
- If the scrape failure is preventing [a new release][cincinnati-graph-data] and appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## PEIncomingRequestsHalted

### Summary:

Policy-engine is not receiving/processing client requests.

### Impact:

Clusters are not receiving updates hints.
Cluster-Version-Operator (CVO) could be hanging or showing errors on clusters console.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Investigate pod connectivity.
- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why policy-engine is not processing client requests.
- If the failure appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## PEUpstreamErrors

### Summary:

Policy-engine is working and processing client request, but its upstream graph-builder is returning errors.

### Impact:

Clusters are not receiving updates hints.
Cluster-Version-Operator (CVO) is showing errors on clusters console.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why policy-engine is not processing client requests.
- If the failure appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## PEGraphResponseErrors

### Summary:

Policy-engine is working and processing client requests, but many of them result in errors.

### Impact:

Clusters are not receiving updates hints.
Cluster-Version-Operator (CVO) is showing errors on clusters console.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why policy-engine is generating error-reponses.
- If the failure appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## Escalations

Slack: `#forum-auto-updates`

Developers: `@over-the-air-updates`

Slack alerts: `#team-cincinnati-alert`

Team email: aos-team-ota@redhat.com

[cincinnati-graph-data]: https://github.com/openshift/cincinnati-graph-data/
[saas-cincinnati]: https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/cincinnati/cicd/ci-int/saas.yaml
[saas-cincinnati-bump]: https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/commits/master/data/services/cincinnati/cicd/ci-int/saas.yaml
[saas-cincinnati-repo]: https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/saas-cincinnati

Commit message:

fix alerting rules for cincinnati stage
fix the alerting rule for detecting upstream scrapes errors as
the 5m time interval was unable to detect errors, bumping it to
15m.

also add a new alert to detect the staleness of update graph.
with severity `warning` we'll be informing the app-sre along
with the cincinnati team about the staleness of the graph.

docs/cincinnati/sop/README.md, after:

# SOP : Openshift Cincinnati

<!-- TOC depthTo:2 -->

- [SOP : OpenShift Cincinnati](#sop--openshift-cincinnati)
    - [Verify it's working](#verify-its-working)
    - [Reporting analysis](#reporting-analysis)
    - [Reverting broken versions](#reverting-broken-versions)
    - [GBUpstreamScrapesHalted](#gbupstreamscrapeshalted)
    - [GBGraphStale](#gbgraphstale)
    - [GBUpstreamScrapeErrors](#gbupstreamscrapeerrors)
    - [PEIncomingRequestsHalted](#peincomingrequestshalted)
    - [PEUpstreamErrors](#peupstreamerrors)
    - [PEGraphResponseErrors](#pegraphresponseerrors)
    - [Escalations](#escalations)

<!-- /TOC -->

---

## Verify it's working

- At least one `cincinnati` pod is marked as UP in Prometheus.
- Additional details on expected behaviour are available in the Cincinnati production deployment doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oT9wueEB01god-gICg0DsGFJzuA-E-TPn88ViWTMr-A/edit

---

## Reporting analysis

Analysis of alerts should be reported on Slack in `#team-cincinnati-alert`, mentioning both `@app-sre-ic` and `@over-the-air-updates` and.
In cases where that analysis is "this alert is too sensitive; this is nothing we need to worry about in the short term", the mentions are still worthwhile because they make it less likely that either team invests duplicate time in re-analyzing the same alert.

## Reverting broken versions

Production reverts can be applied via [saas-cincinnati][], in cases where the issue is due to a production bump having pushed out broken code.
Reverting [the most-recently merged bump][saas-cincinnati-bump] will move production back to the code it was running before.

The production deployment used to reside in [saas-cincinnati-repo][]

---

## GBUpstreamScrapesHalted

### Summary:

Graph-builder scraping logic is not making progresses.

### Impact:

New releases will not appear in the update graph (the latest cached graph will be kept serving).
Updated releases and transition-edges will not be reflected in the update graph.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why graph-builder got blocked.
- If the scrape failure is preventing [a new release][cincinnati-graph-data] and appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## GBGraphStale

### Summary:

Graph-builder graph has become stale, this can be due to errors while scraping or scraping halted due to reasons not known.

### Impact:

New releases will not appear in the update graph (the latest cached graph will be kept serving).
Updated releases and transition-edges will not be reflected in the update graph.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
  - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
  - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why graph-builder got blocked.
- If the scrape failure is preventing [a new release][cincinnati-graph-data] and appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).
- If there is a manifest-ref SHA mismatch, it might be due to ART adding duplicate releases with same version. 
  DO NOT revert or replace or delete the POD, it will take down Update Service till the issue is fixed. Check for `mismatched manifest ref for concrete release` 
  in the graph-builder logs. This should be the last line in graph-builder logs if they're not actively refreshing. 

---

## GBUpstreamScrapeErrors

### Summary:

Graph-builder is failing to scrape release metadata from quay.io.

### Impact:

New releases will not appear in the update graph (the latest cached graph will be kept serving).
Updated releases and transition-edges will not be reflected in the update graph.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Check quay.io outage status: https://status.quay.io/
- Look at the logs for the 'graph-builder' container to pinpoint what is failing.
- If logs contain service errors from quay.io, check #forum-quay-oncall and contact quay.io ops.
- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why graph-builder is experiencing scrape errors.
- If the scrape failure is preventing [a new release][cincinnati-graph-data] and appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## PEIncomingRequestsHalted

### Summary:

Policy-engine is not receiving/processing client requests.

### Impact:

Clusters are not receiving updates hints.
Cluster-Version-Operator (CVO) could be hanging or showing errors on clusters console.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Investigate pod connectivity.
- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why policy-engine is not processing client requests.
- If the failure appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## PEUpstreamErrors

### Summary:

Policy-engine is working and processing client request, but its upstream graph-builder is returning errors.

### Impact:

Clusters are not receiving updates hints.
Cluster-Version-Operator (CVO) is showing errors on clusters console.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why policy-engine is not processing client requests.
- If the failure appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## PEGraphResponseErrors

### Summary:

Policy-engine is working and processing client requests, but many of them result in errors.

### Impact:

Clusters are not receiving updates hints.
Cluster-Version-Operator (CVO) is showing errors on clusters console.

### Access required:

- Access to the clusters that run Cincinnati, namespaces:
    - cincinnati-stage (app-sre-stage)
    - cincinnati-production (app-sre)

### Steps:

- Contact Cincinnati team, investigate why policy-engine is generating error-reponses.
- If the failure appears to be due to a recent production deploy, consider [reverting the deploy](#reverting-broken-versions).

---

## Escalations

Slack: `#forum-auto-updates`

Developers: `@over-the-air-updates`

Slack alerts: `#team-cincinnati-alert`

Team email: aos-team-ota@redhat.com

[cincinnati-graph-data]: https://github.com/openshift/cincinnati-graph-data/
[saas-cincinnati]: https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/cincinnati/cicd/ci-int/saas.yaml
[saas-cincinnati-bump]: https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/commits/master/data/services/cincinnati/cicd/ci-int/saas.yaml
[saas-cincinnati-repo]: https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/saas-cincinnati
