docs/app-sre/sop/app-interface-review-process.md, before:

# App Interface review process

This is a WIP SOP intended for use by App SRE team members acting as Interrupt Catcher or just reviewing merge requests to app-interface.

## Process

1. Verify that build passes.
2. Verify that the `app-interface JSON validation` report is as expected due to the changes introduced in the MR.
3. Check specific review instructions (see #specific-review-instructions)
4. If any additional reviewers are required, ping them on the MR (see #additional-reviewers).
5. Once the MR looks good to you, add the `lgtm` label or comment `/label lgtm`. The MR will be merged automatically within minutes.

## Notes

* Some merge requests will be created with an `automerge` label. No need to review or merge those.

## Specific review instructions

### saas-deploy image_pattern

This change indicates that an additional component will be allowed to be deployed to a production namespace.

Action items:
* verify the existence of a matching SOP for the additional component before merging

## Additional Reviewers

### Telemeter

```
@kasingh @ccoleman @cvogel
```

### Insights cluster access:

Note: Insights team is managing their own MRs during the migration. Following folks can be asked to review MR when in doubt.

```
- @klape
- @bturner
- @aprice
- @mafriedm
```

### Managed services

```
- @weil
- @stobin
- @dbizzarr
```

Commit message:

update telemeter access review sop

docs/app-sre/sop/app-interface-review-process.md, after:

# App Interface review process

This is a WIP SOP intended for use by App SRE team members acting as Interrupt Catcher or just reviewing merge requests to app-interface.

## Process

1. Verify that build passes.
2. Verify that the `app-interface JSON validation` report is as expected due to the changes introduced in the MR.
3. Check specific review instructions (see #specific-review-instructions)
4. If any additional reviewers are required, ping them on the MR (see #additional-reviewers).
5. Once the MR looks good to you, add the `lgtm` label or comment `/label lgtm`. The MR will be merged automatically within minutes.

## Notes

* Some merge requests will be created with an `automerge` label. No need to review or merge those.

## Specific review instructions

### saas-deploy image_pattern

This change indicates that an additional component will be allowed to be deployed to a production namespace.

Action items:
* verify the existence of a matching SOP for the additional component before merging

## Additional Reviewers

### Telemeter

Access to Telemeter is approved by the telemetry-sme list: telemetry-sme <telemetry-sme@redhat.com> 

The best way to request access is to email that list, point at the MR and ask for approval.

### Insights cluster access:

Note: Insights team is managing their own MRs during the migration. Following folks can be asked to review MR when in doubt.

```
- @klape
- @bturner
- @aprice
- @mafriedm
```

### Managed services

```
- @weil
- @stobin
- @dbizzarr
```
